Thank you for choosing to study how to select the right equity fund through us.
We've been doing this for the last 12 years and the intent of the program is to help you understand
exactly the way we pick equity mutual funds when we do financial credit.
But before I move on to the content, a couple of very interesting
things that I really want to discuss with you all as to why we came up with these series of videos.
Technically, when I go out doing presentations physically to the ISA community,
I see that a lot of people pick equity funds just out of the blue.
I mean, I'm not sure if they understand what the exact client's requirement is,
how much risk can the client really take or probably has an asset allocation strategy being put in place.
And also, while you end up picking up an equity mutual fund,
all most people do is just look at the last one year, three or five year or seven year,
10 year returns and probably compare it with a benchmark or probably the category average.
And then whichever fund has done better is what they pick up and end up recommending it to the client.
Now, this is exactly where I feel there is a big disconnect in the way you should actually
pick equity funds versus the way the industry actually is currently following a practice.
Is where I feel this training module will really bridge the gap between the way you should ideally pick
an equity fund versus the way the industry is currently practicing.
I think which equity fund should you client invest in is probably the last thing in the entire chain
or discussion of how to reach which equity fund should you pick.
Prior to picking the right equity fund,
there are multiple steps that you and me as advisors really have to look into a basis which
probably the category and the scheme comes in which is in my opinion the last thing in the value chain.
So the first thing according to me before you end up actually recommending the scheme is to be able
to understand what is the client's risk profile and basis that help the client understand
why and what kind of an asset allocation strategy should the client have.
As an allocation in my opinion is the first and the most important thing that US advisor have to close
on with an understanding with the client helping the client understand why does the client need this
particular asset allocation strategy. After having gone through the risk profiling and determined
and asset allocation strategy for the client, the second point is to be able to understand
what are the client's goals requirements because of which he is intending to invest in equity
mutual funds and for you to be able to do a goal based planning for the client and after having
done the goal based planning for the client is where exactly the category and then the scheme
of equity comes into picture and hence selection is where you really focus then but according to
be before going on to selecting a scheme like I said asset allocation is the first stage
and the second stage is goal based investment. So this is exactly how I have designed this entire curriculum
where we will first concentrate on helping you understand why asset allocation is actually required
and what are the basic asset allocation strategies that you can really follow.
Second very importantly I feel is again helping you understand how to do goal based planning
and then in the third section is where we will go on to deciding how to select a scheme.
Now selecting a scheme also we've kind of bifurcated it to two. First is me helping you understand
how to look at the past data. There are a lot of things that we really have to look at beyond returns
and I will exactly help you understand how do you break down past performance and are in a position
to figure out looking at the past performance of what scheme has done how on risk adjusted returns.
But again you know just looking at the past returns does not really solve the purpose it definitely
gives you a data point of how has the scheme been able to perform over the last one year, three
or five years, seven years but that does not really justify that if the scheme has done well in the past
the scheme will ideally end up doing well in the future as well is exactly where the fourth part
of the training module comes into picture is where we will help you understand
how do you really determine or understand the positioning of the portfolio today right.
So I will help you understand how do you look at the investment of the portfolio today
and figure out if this is undervalued over a valued growth whether it will perform
in the near future even the challenges that the economy or the sector has to offer.
So we are going to look at asset allocation, we are going to look at goal-based investing,
we are going to look at how do you understand the fund has performed really well or not
looking at the past data on risk return basis and we will try and see with the portfolio is really geared
up to perform in the future which I think is a very very very important like which is missing in the way
most people do scheme selection.
