So to start with the first thing, like I said, acid allocation, why do you really need
acid allocation?
I'm sure given the difficult times that we are going through, just give me a moment.
So given the difficult times that we are actually going through, I'm sure today most of us realize
that having invested 100% of clients' money in equity, today we see how equity is badgered
and hence clients are slightly panicking and this is not the situation that you and I really
want to be in.
And today we understand the important of acid allocation.
I'm going to give you a simple example of what happened in 2008 and 2009 to help you
re-itrate and focus on this point again what you and I are experiencing today is exactly
what keeps happening again and again and this is not a one-time phenomenon.
So what happened in 2008?
In 2008, you saw Nifty 100 falling as good as 46% and I'm sure if you had your client
invest 100% of the money in equity, you would really not be in a comforting position.
But in the same period, you saw gold beads or gold rather giving you a plus 11% returns,
you saw corporate bonds giving you a plus 9% returns.
In fact, you saw liquid funds giving you almost 8.5% returns.
The idea that I'm trying to project here is instead of having all your 100 rupees invested
in equity, the way most of us do today, why not have an acid allocation strategy where
in times like today or what happened in 2008, when Nifty or equity generally takes such
a heart meeting, you will actually have other acid allocation, other assets which will
return balance your portfolio and the overall picture of the portfolio will not look that
bad.
So I'm going to present to you five reasons why I believe acid allocation is a brilliant
strategy and everybody should have an acid allocation strategy for the client and not invest all
the money either in debt or all money in equity because in times like these or in 2008 and
2009, probably the client will not be as comfortable as you would want the client to be.
So what are these five reasons why I think acid allocation has a strategy is extremely important.
So the first that you see, I'm going to run you through each of these points in slide details
with some numbers.
The first reason why I think acid allocation is required is because each asset has a different
risk return characteristic, right and not all clients are or rather would be comfortable
taking the risk or letting go of the returns just because you and I want to, you know, get
the client invested in one asset, be it debt or need equity depending on what we feel is
right for the client.
So each of these assets have a different risk return strategy and hence it has to be very
categorically used depending on what the client's need is and how can we actually solve the
purpose of reducing the client risk and giving a better risk adjusted return.
Second, very importantly, there is a huge rotation in performance.
Now what I mean by this is, let's say for example, international equities currently have
done really well but are you sure if international equities will do well the next year or the year
after.
What I've seen most people do is pick up the asset class which has performed really well
the last year, get clients to invest there but what they miss out really on is that the performance
rotates, the winners rotate in hence, you know, just giving the last year's best performance
may not really solve the problem and I'm going to give you a lot of statistics around this
in just a minute in a couple of more slides.
So like I just showed you what happened in 2008 and 2009, these assets because are not
perfectly correlated, what happens is if there is one asset which falls down the other asset
goes up and that's how the balancing happens and hence asset allocation is extremely important
and I'm going to give you data points around each of these points in my coming slides.
Most importantly, which is my fourth point, which is all of these assets actually solve a
different purpose and objective and hence, you and me believing that getting the client to
invest in either completely debt or either equity solves the purpose is actually not how it
happens, right?
And I'm going to start with point number four as my first slide and the last thing is no
asset class can actually substitute any other asset class and I'm going to give you data points
around each of these five points one by one.
So let me start with my fourth point first, which is each of these asset classes have a different
purpose and objective. So let's say this. So I have divided all of these asset classes that we
generally invest through mutual funds in three objectives. So the first objective is liquidity,
the second objective is income and third objective is growth, right?
Now, now, say for example, if the client is actually coming to you and me for investments,
where the client is actually looking at liquidity over growth, I'm sure you will understand
that while the client is looking at liquidity, the client doesn't want to invest in equities because
equity is meant for creating growth. But while the client is looking at equity, when I have to
understand that the client is looking at investing in debt and investing at the shorter end of the
investment curve, right? Which is investing in products like liquid funds, arbitrage funds,
overnight funds, money market funds, etc. So while the client can have an objective of liquidity
that cannot be solved by either gold or equities. So if the client's objective is liquidity,
you have no other option to but make sure that the client is investing either of these investment
avenues that we have to offer in mutual funds, right? Again, at the same time. So the client may have
an objective of liquidity or the client may have a time horizon, which is very short. The point
that I'm trying to make is the client has an objective of liquidity or a time horizon which is short,
equity is not the product to recommend. What I'm trying to solve or come here is helping you understand
that each of these asset classes solves a purpose, right? Has an objective, which is why they deserve a
place in the client's investing opportunity. Similarly, the client is looking at generating income,
right? Let's say your client is probably a retired individual and is looking at an opportunity to
generate income. Again, at that time, probably gold equity or real estate does not solve the purpose.
What actually solves the purpose is investing in short-come funds, banking PSU, corporate bond funds
or guild funds. Of course, depending on multiple other factors, but one that I'm trying to make is
either client is looking at generating income, then probably getting 100 percent invest money
invested in liquid funds or gold or equity may not solve the purpose, right? Similarly,
the client is actually looking at investing for long term, right? This is long term here.
See, the client is looking at investing for long term and the objective is growth. Again,
you might want to consider parking small amount of money here for short, but most of the money
will come here is because that is exactly where the client really wants to invest given the objective
of the client. So, the long story is shorter and trying to help you understand is each of these
classes, right? Has an objective which can either be equity, which can be income, which can be growth
and are meant for an investment purpose for a particular time horizon. Either can be short, either
can be medium or can be long term. Now, we have to understand from the client of what the objective
of the client is. Easy looking at liquidity, easy looking at income, easy looking at growth,
easy looking at a combination of all how long does the client want to invest, short, medium,
long term? And hence, we able to give them a basket where all of these objectives and time
horizons are made through these different asset classes in which it can invest. So, the long story
short here is each asset class has an objective, has a relevant time frame of investment and you can
really solve this purpose by just offering equity for any requirement that the client has.
Reason number one why asset allocation is required is this. Reason number two which is in my opinion
very interesting is like most of you all are aware, you know, not all clients that you and I cater to
or even in your and my investing journey, we know that there are clients who are risk-avers,
there are clients who can take a lot of risk, right? There are clients who are looking out for higher
returns, there are clients who are probably looking out for only capital protection. And then there are
clients who are in middle of these where they are saying that, you know what, I am okay with slightly
higher risk, but I am also looking at that equivalent slide higher. This is exactly where
asset allocation comes into picture. Now look at these statistics between 2003 and 2020.
Of course, you and I both know equity can generate significantly higher return. So, over the last 17
years equity generated close to 18 and a half percent of compounded annual growth rate, but that comes
with a 26 percent risk. Now, as the stands for standard deviation, we have a detailed video on what
standard deviation is, but to start off with just consider this to be risk. So, I am saying if I am
willing to take a 26 percent risk, I can generate 18.5 percent return is what the last 17 years
or history shows me, but not necessarily every client is okay with taking a 26 percent risk, right?
Is where comes into picture asset allocation? Is because you can offer a client some portion
of investing in gold, where the risk can reduce to slightly lower of 16, right? And of course,
you and me both understand and agree that if the risk goes down, then the return will also slightly
go down. And hence over the last 17 years with 16 percent risk, gold has been able to generate
13 percent CGR. And also, if you want to reduce the risk in the client basket even further,
then you add a component of debt which reduces the risk significantly, right? But of course,
the returns also fall versus what you saw in equity. So, point is each of these asset classes,
while they are solving a different objective and are there for different type frames of investment,
right? They also carry different risk return profile. And a combination of these can give a proper
risk return experience to the client in their mixed in and appropriate way, right? So,
this is another reason why if you are able to give a mixture of some part of debt, some part of
gold and some part of equity, the overall risk experience to the client may reduce.
And equivalently, the return experience can be made superior instead of just taking 26 percent
risk because I want to generate 18 and a half percent of it. So, this according to me is the
second reason why asset allocation is extremely important is because with different risk return profile
like each of these asset classes bringing, we can give a good blend to the client,
where the client can experience lower rate, lower risk with slightly higher risk adjusted.
The third, according to me, is the most important reason of why we should have asset allocation.
Yours an important chart and I am going to remove this so that you can see the entire.
Yours an important winners rotation chart. Now, what it actually shows is between 2010 to 2019,
which is good 10 years, which were the asset classes or the category which actually performed well
and which is the category which were performed the worst. So, in the first line you see the
category that did the best in those respective years and your you see the category which did the worst
in the same year. Now, what I want you to understand is winners rotate. What do I mean? Do not look at
international equities performance the last year and get clients to invest in international equities
the next year because winners rotate. It is quite possible that though the last year,
international equities may have done really well. It does not mean that it continue to do well
in the coming years as well. And here is a 10 year picture where I am trying to explain to you
why exactly over the last 10 years, this has actually worked out and it will continue to do so.
Now, let's look at 2010 and 11, which was the best performing asset class goal. So, in 2010,
gold gave 24% returns in 2011, gold gave 29%. Now, looking at this, you probably would have got excited
to investing gold in 2012. But look at what happened in 2012. In 2012, gold was the seventh
performer in terms of asset class. There were six performers better than gold. What happened in
2013 and 2014? Look, 13, 14, 15, gold was the worst performer for three consecutive year in 2013,
14, 15. The point that I am trying to make is had you invested in gold looking at 2010 or 2011's
performance, you probably would have set yourself up for disappointment in 2012, 13, 14 and 15
because gold did not perform at all. Now, look at 2012, mid cap did really well in 2012,
gave 38.52%. Now, having looked at the mid cap's performance in 2012, had you invested in mid cap
in 2013, you are again open for disappointment because mid cap was the eighth or the third last
performer in the category of assets that we are discussing with a minus 5.73 percent returns.
The point that I am trying to make is winners rotate, just because some asset classes, some
product has done well in the last year, it may not work the same way. Look at 2013,
international equities did phenomenally well with almost 30% returns. What happened in 2014 and
check here? They were amongst the lowest three performers in the basket of products that we are
discussing. The point that I am trying to make is winners rotate, I will give you one more example.
Look at 2014, small cap's super performance with 63%. Now, looking at this, had you invested in
small cap? Look at what happened in 2015, 2016. In 2015, small cap gave just 6% return. In 2016,
small cap was the worst performing asset class with just 1.77% returns. In 1819, again the worst
performing asset class. The point that I am trying to make is, I am not sure how many people here
actually can predict which is the best, which is going to be the best performing asset class the next year.
In hence, asset allocation can really solve that problem for us and we do not really have to depend on
betting or trying to predict which is going to be the best performer or the winner of the next year.
I am going to give you an interesting stat in my next slide again.
So, we saw that in 2010 and 2011, gold were the best performers. Now, looking at this, had we
invested in gold, look at what happened between 12 and 14. Gold gave you a minus 1.32% return.
So, you were up for a disappointment, had you gone to investing gold in 2012 looking at 10 and 11
data. But had you had an asset allocation in place, look what happened in the same time for
into other asset classes. So, had you had an asset allocation, yes, you would have probably lost 1.3%
in gold, but if the 100 could have given you almost 23% return, corporate bond index would have given
you 10%, and liquid could have given you 8.99%. So, your disappointment with respect to your gold
returns could have been balanced out by other asset classes performing and giving you a better experience.
But you should have had an asset allocation and not invested all your money in gold where you would
have been up for a disappointment. I am going to give you one more stat. Now, look at this.
We have done this data crunching from 1993 to 2019. This is actually a good 26 year data that I am
trying to share with you. What does this show? Now, the first data shows you that since 1993,
had you chosen the best performing asset class of the last year and invested there.
I must return what you have made in 26 years. So, I am saying let's say in 1993,
hypothetically, the best asset class to invest in was gold. In 1994, I invested in gold,
and I continued doing that for 26 years where I picked the last year's best performer and invested
what return on CAG or basis could have I made over the last 26 years. I would have made just 5.38%.
A clear data point of the last 26 years showing you that never chase performers,
you saw that had you chased performers over the last 26 years, you were up for a big disappointment
having invested for 26 years when you could have generated just 5.38%. So, doesn't mean that I should
choose the worst performer, may not. So, if you chose the worst performer over the last 26 years,
your return would have been slightly better than the return that you would have made changing the
winner. So, this can be a good strategy versus the winner choosing the worst performer over the last year
because it shows over the last 26 years that you could have made 1.2% returns more CAG or 26 years.
But what has worked out the best? Had you equally divided your money across debt, gold and equity,
your performance in the same period could have been 8.17%. I am not talking about 1 year, 2 year, 3 or 5
years, I am talking about a good 26 year data point. Again proving my point that asset allocation is
actually what really makes a lot of sense for you and for the client to give stability
to the portfolio and make steady returns. So, why not invest entire 100% in equity, entire 100%
in debt and can there be a better opportunity? The answer is yes, why? So, why do we invest? In my
simplest opinion, I think a lot of people come to marketing, product investing is because they
want to meet inflation. Now, I am again doing a data crunching of 17 years between 2003 and 2020.
The CPI index was 6.65, average for the last 17 years, which means you wanted to do investments
in a way where you could meet 6.65. Because that is what the consumer price index has been an
average for the last 17 years. Now, imagine the situation had you invested all your money in debt,
right? Yes, of course your risk would have been very low at 4%, but have you been able to beat the CPI?
Marginally, right? But understand this is pre-tax. If I remove tax, you probably post-tax are not
able to beat CPI over the last 17 years. Should you do 100% in debt? You know, that is a call that
you really have to go ahead and make. But in my opinion, if you are not able to with 17 years of
investing post-tax beat CPI, you probably are not doing justification if you are doing investing
in market-linked Florida, right? A better way of having done investment with very low risk
could have been doing 80% in debt and 20% in equity. Your risk could have been 11% of course,
slightly higher than investing all your money in debt, but you would have significantly been
able to beat CPI, right? Pre-tax and post-tax both, right? Of course, not depending on your risk,
had you were you moderate risk-taker and had you invested 15, debt and 15 equity? We slightly
higher risk, you would have generated almost 15% return in the same video. But now look at another
end of the curve that I am trying to help you understand. 100% equity with 26% risk could have
generated 18.5, right? But had you done a 30% debt and 70% equity with lower risk? See, I am taking
4% lower risk, my return is not dropping significantly, right? So, the point that I am trying to make
is instead of doing 100% debt, had you done 80% debt and 20% equity? Your principle to a greater extent
would have still been protected, right? But were you able to beat CPI? The answer is yes. Instead of
doing 100% equity over the last 17 years, had you done 30% debt and 70% equity, were you in a position
to generate almost the same returns? Yes, but your risk came down. Again, going back to the same
discussion that we are trying to hop on. Since the start, asset allocation gives your client
and you have a very good opportunity to reduce risk on the portfolio, give balance to the portfolio
and not really compromise on the return to that direct extent, right? This is a sample asset allocation
model according to me. While subscribing for this particular video, along with this video, you will
get a simpler risk profile up that you can use. These are some 7-8 questions. If your client is just
answering those simple questions, it automatically pops up and gives you whether the client is aggressive,
moderate or ever, right? So, you will get that with this video series. If you really don't want to
complicate it, keep it very simple. You think your client understands equity is investing in equity
or does realistic kind of investment understands, right? He is probably aggressive investor, give him
80% equity and 20% debt. If you think your client is not that aggressive, but he is looking at decent
return and he is okay to take slight risk, give him a moderate asset allocation with 50% equity,
50% debt. If your client is risk ever, give the client 20% equity and 80% debt, right? With 20%
equity and 80% debt, your client will still not lose capital is because even if your 20% equity falls
by, let's say, let's say, 50%, the impact on the portfolio is going to be 10%, right? And 10%
can be made by debt in one and a half years, right? So your client is actually not going to lose capital,
even if you give 20% equity and 80% debt, but what that 20% equity will do, which I showed you in the
last slide, will make sure that you are able to generate post tax returns, which are better than
CPI, which according to me should be the intent if you are investing in any marketing.
I hope I have given you enough data points from the past and I have been able to convince you
why do an asset allocation? According to me, this is the first and the most important step.
Before you jump on to selecting the right equity fund, make sure that you sit down with the
client. Get the client to fill the risk profiler that you have got with this video series.
Understand that the client is aggressive, moderate or risk-avers, give this asset allocation,
and then move on to the next step. So if your client is aggressive,
the first thing that you've determined is I want to give 80% equity and 20% debt is where everything
else follows. I hope I have been able to explain to you asset allocation,
and the Neether on asset allocation, and thank you so much in the next video.
We will try and understand how can we look at goal-based investment. Thank you so much.
