So now, in the first video, we've already understood why the client should have an asset allocation
strategy, and probably, how can you design an asset allocation strategy for the client?
Now that you've decided the asset allocation for the client, the second most important thing
is making sure that we are doing investments for the client which are linked to a particular
goal.
Now there are two reasons why in my opinion, goal based investing really adds a lot of value
to the client as well as to the advisor, right?
First, you know, randomly, I see a lot of advisors going to the client and, you know, having
a discussion around the new product which is getting launched and why the client should invest
or probably checking with the client of how much SIP does the client really want to do?
And there is no systematic process or designing why, how much and where the investments have
to do is exactly where goal based investing comes into picture.
After having learned this, you will really understand how to approach the client and help
the client understand, how much money does he, she need to park for retirement, for child's
education, child's marriage, so on and so forth of various goals.
And you will categorically be able to design, define and tell the client that the client has
to do A, B, C amount of SIP every month and the client to a greater extent now having understood
why this amount and how this amount has come out will actually go ahead and do that investing
with you.
Instead of randomly telling the client, you know, go ahead and do a 5,000, 10,000 with the SIP.
This not only helps you convince the client why do I not SIP, but it also to a greater
extent helps you close on a higher number of SIP that you would have otherwise done by randomly
saying or talking to the client and asking the client to start an SIP.
The second most important thing or the most important element that this brings in our discussion
is discipline.
See, generally what happens is a lot of clients start investing, but to get them to stick
invested to the investment is difficult because of the volatility in the market and probably
because of their short term needs, they would want to, you know, take them into the mutual
fund investment because they are liquid, get money out and spend that money.
Gold based investing will actually bring in the discipline that you really want the client
to have and stick with in terms of long term investing.
Why?
Is because you and the client have spoken that this 20 years of investment is going towards
X amount of fund accumulation that the client wants because of which the client has to do
this 10,000 with your SIP.
Every time the client thinks of stopping the SIP, you are removing money out of the fund.
The first thing the client will really think or the impact will be that if I stop this or
remove money out, my retirement is going to get handled.
This is actually going to bring in the discipline to make sure that the client is actually investing
up to the stipulated time frame, adding value not only to the advisor but also to the client
because at the end of the day the client also is making sure that at retirement the client
has enough money so that the standard of leaving does not fall.
So this is a win-win for the client as well as the advisor where it brings in the discipline
and makes sure that we are able to get the maximum order SIP or investment that we are looking
at because we are linking it to a goal and deriving the goal through a systematic process is exactly
where I think goal based investing comes into picture and is an extremely important element
which is my second step before deciding which I could invest in how much and why am I going
to do investment.
But for us to be able to do justice to goal based investing, we have to understand for a small
concept around something called as time value of money which is extremely important because
with the help of which we are going to do goal based investing.
So what is time value of money?
So we are saying in simple terms time value of money means that the value of money is not
going to stay constant.
What do I mean?
Let's say for example you have 100 rupees today.
Now you have three options to do with this 100 rupees consume let's say buy a pen with
this 100 rupees, second invest and third don't do anything right.
These are generally the three options that you would have if you have 100 rupees today.
So in the simplest form I am trying to tell you that the value of 100 rupees today is not
going to stay 100 tomorrow.
Let's say we will not stay 100 one year later.
Why?
Because if you are consuming it it becomes zero.
If you are investing it you are expecting this becomes 100 and 10.
If you are doing nothing inflation will eat it to it and the value might become 94.
Now what do I mean 100 will still stay 100 but the value will be 94.
Why?
It's because inflation has eaten into the actual value of 100 rupees.
What do I mean?
Let's say today with this 100 rupees you can buy this pen right but you choose not to
and stay at the end of the year do you think the price of the pen will stay the same actually
no right.
So because of inflation the price of the pen will increase let's say the price of the
pen becomes 106.
Now if at the end of the year you still have 100 rupees only will you be able to buy the
pen no because of inflation the pen has become 106 which means the 100 rupees with which
you could buy the pen today you are not able to buy the same pen at the end of the first
year because of inflation which means the value of your 100 is not 100 and it has actually
come down because of inflation by 6 rupees.
So what you could buy with 100 a year back you can buy only worth of 94 today is what
I am trying to explain to you.
So all of these things are how much 100 will become in the future or if it is 94 how much
will it be value today and various things in and around the value of money and how does
it keep changing is what we will understand using this term called time value of money.
So in time value of money is where we will understand how either money grows either money does
not and how do you calculate all of these things.
So for us to understand time value of money there are a couple of terminologies that we have
to understand.
The first we have to understand is something called as present value.
Now what is present value?
Present value is the amount of money that you have to invest today.
So let's say if you have 100 rupees to invest today I will say that your present value is
100 rupees.
Now please understand in time value of money there is this one very important concept that
you have to understand is that whenever money goes out of your pocket you always have to denote
that as minus.
Now because I am here at this point in time investing this 100 and it is going out of my pocket
I am going to denote that as minus 100 right.
Well let's say for example if I go to the bank and I take 100 rupees of loan from the bank
so I will get that 100 rupees today right that 100 rupees also available in today's form
right.
So that is also present value but I will denote that as plus because money is coming to me.
So what is present value?
Present value is the amount of money that you have today right that you are either going
to invest or you are going to receive today and this is in lump sum.
That is lump sum 100 rupees together and not talking of parts not talking of EMI not
talking about it about SIP and talking about lump sum.
So present value is lump sum today.
If it comes in you denote that as plus if it goes out you denote that as minus.
I hope this is absolutely clear.
The second thing that we have to understand in time value of money before we proceed is
something called as future value.
Now what is future value again a very simple concept.
Let's say I invest 100 rupees today after five years I am expecting to receive something
more.
Let's say I am expecting to receive 250.
So this 250 that I am supposed to receive in the future in the future is called the future
value.
Now this in most cases in our discussion is always going to be plus is because we are going
to talk about investing and receiving this money in the future because we are going to
receive the money in the future for us in most cases this is going to be plus 250.
Now understand this is also lump sum.
I invest 100 lump sum I get 250 lump sum I call this present value PV I call this FV future
value.
The third thing that we have to understand is something called as rate.
What is rate let's say I invested 100 rupees and I invested 100 rupees at what rate what
return let's say 12 percent.
So I invested 100 rupees at 12 percent which is why it became 250.
So I will call 100 as PV I will call 250 as FV and I will call 12 percent as rate.
So rate is anything with a percentage sign in our discussion.
So this can be return this can be inflation this can be anything which is in percentage
form that we will require for all our calculation anything that you get in the percentage form
will fall here in rate.
The fourth what we have to understand is period.
Now in the above example you saw that I invested 100 rupees PV at 12 percent and I got 215
in the future.
But after how many years 5 so 5 in this case becomes the period it's the time it's the
10 year for which we are doing our investments right.
So we understood 4 basic concepts at this point in time right we are saying first present
value what is present value the amount of lump sum money I have today lump sum I have today
if I am investing that or if I am spending that money it will be minus because it is going
out of my pocket if I am receiving that money it is going to be plus.
But this is called present value only if it is happening today right.
Future value the lump sum amount of money that I am going to receive in the future right.
So 215 our example is our future value because I invested 100 and I got 215 in the future.
So we are saying 215 rupees that I will receive in the future lump sum is the future value.
My 100 became 250 because the rate on it generated was 12 percent so 12 percent is my rate.
But I am saying not just rate anything in percentage form we will write under rate that
can be inflation also right and the time frame the time period or the 10 year for which I do
investments is called the period. Now we understood 4 things for basic things in time value of money
present value future value rate and period. Now we are going to use Excel and try and figure out
how do we do these calculations of time value of money. How do we understand
how much 100 invested today can become in the future right or if I want 5 lakh in the future
how much do I have to invest today. Let us try to understand a couple of these when basic level
of questions and for that we are going to use Excel right. So let us say the first thing that we are
trying to understand let us say you go and end up meeting a client. Client says I want 5 lakh rupees
after 15 years for my child's education. Client says I want 5 lakh rupees after 15 years for my
child's education. Tell me the amount of money that I will need to invest today if the return I can
generate is 12%. So you went to the client the client said that after 15 years after 15 years
I would need 5 lakh rupees for child's education. If the product that you are recommending can generate
me 12% tell me how much should I invest today right. Now there are 2-3 things that you have to understand
right. I might have written it down here on the PowerPoint but this numbers may completely vary
when you go and meet your client physically, practically. Client may say 10 years and I need a crore
client. Let me say 5 years and I need 2 lakhs does not matter your calculation will still remain
the same right. So both of these data client tells you that after how many years I would need how much
money. This return will depend on the product that you are offering. Let's say if you are offering
an arbitrage fund take the return as 6%. If you are investing in equity take it 10-12%. If you are
investing in a debt fund take 7-8%. So though I might take 12% here this is completely your
provocative depending on the product that you and your client are actually discussing right.
So let's say this example client says after 15 years I want 5 lakh and because we are talking about
equity mutual funds I think we can generate 12%. Tell me how much lump sum should I invest today
so that this can be taken care of. Now if you see what is given to us we know that the client wants 5
lakhs in the future so future value. We know that the client has a period of 15 years of investment so
and we know that the rate we are talking about is 12% because we are talking about equity
we need to understand how much to invest today. So we have to find the present value. Now how do we
do this? We don't need to understand any Excel calculation sorry we don't need to understand any
formula. We are going to use Excel to do all our calculations and it is extremely simple even if
you have not used Excel before. How? So you go to Excel okay. Do you see this FX? This FX is where
we will do all our calculations. So you click on FX. A window will open up in your computer right.
There will be a search column. Your window might look a little different than mine because I might use
a different Excel version or a computer than yours but a window will open and it will have this
function where you can search. Now search PV because you want to find the present value. So search whatever
you want to find. In this case we want to find the present value. So I will search present value.
See I see PV here right. I will double click on PV. Another window will open up right. Like I said
the window that might open up in your case may be slightly different than the window that opens up
here but does not matter there is a window that you open up which will ask you these questions.
Do you see them right okay. Now we have most of these things already in place. First is rate. What's
our rate? 12% so I will write 12% second it is asking for n per. n per is actually the period that
you and I spoke of. Number of periods. Number of periods right. Sorry this is number of periods.
That's n per. So what's a period? A period is 15 right. Make sure you will have to write this percentage
you are at 12% right. Now there is something called as PMT that you and I have yet not discussed so
leave that blank for timing. What is FV? We know how much do I want in the future? Five blacks.
So I will input five blacks. 12345. Now we have not yet discussed what is type. So we will leave that
also as blank. So we left PMT and type blank because we have not discussed this. We wrote the other three
that we knew of and we have the data. So I went out all three left out the two which I don't know
or don't have data off and I click enter. Here's my answer minus 91 348. So I'm saying minus 91 348
is the present value of this entire investment that I want to do. So if I invest
91 348 today which you saw here 91 348 today and if it grows at 12% for 15 years I will get five
lakh rupees at the end of the 15th year for my child's education right. Where do I invest this 91
thousand is the point that comes the last is exactly what I was trying to explain to you. First you
have to understand that what is the goal and how much money would you want to invest and after you
understood how much money would you want to invest is where where do you want to invest will come into
the future. So in this case we are saying I want to invest 90 or rather I will have to invest 91
thousand 348 today and if it grows at 12% year after year then at the end of the 15th year I will have
five lakh rupees right. Let's say for example instead of 12% we were talking about 8%
because a client was willing to invest only in a debt fund. So I'm sure you will understand that
if the client is investing in a debt fund and the return is 8% then I might have to invest slightly
more because 91 thousand was with respect to 12%. But now if I'm going to make 8% I will have to
invest slightly more right. Now I want to know that if the client has to invest only in debt how much
will this 91 thousand actually become. So you do the same thing right and I'm going to repeat this
for the advantage of everybody. So you click on effects in the search you click PV because that's
what you want to find you will have PV. What's our rate now our rate is 8% what's our
end per 15 years. How much do I want in the future? 1, 2, 3, 4, 5. 5 lakhs I will not enter anything
for PMT and type because I'm not learned what that is and I let that be right now I click enter
and I get my answer 157,600 which means that is the client instead of investing in equity is investing
in debt then the client will have to invest 157,000 rupees today and if the client is investing 157,000
rupees here and 8% is generated for 15 years then the client will get 5 lakh rupees at maturity.
I hope this is absolutely clearly understood so far and I'm going to take a pause on this video
right now here and then join you in the next video because I don't want to increase the time of the
video and make it really large. So I hope you understood why gold base investing I hope you understood
how does it add value to the client and to you and you understood the basic terminologies
around time value of money we will try and solve more questions around time value money so that
this concept actually becomes extremely strong for you and I'll see you on the other side of the
other side. Thank you.
