Now let's understand all the 18 different types of equity and equity hybrid funds.
Of course, there is no explanation as such needed here in terms of what category does what?
But I've tried simplifying it through this Excel where we can understand in very simple terms of
what is the focus area of each of these categories. Take a snapshot of this and probably this
will be an extremely handy material for you to figure out as and then or whenever you require
to understand categorization. So first, equity funds, there are close to 11 equity funds as
for the new SEBI's scheme categorization and each of these funds are different from each other,
illustrious and how. So the first fund is large cap, large cap, the definition is 80% of the money
has to be invested at all times in large cap stocks. As per SEBI's new definition,
top 100 market capitalization stocks are regarded as large cap stocks. So 80% of the money
in a large cap fund at all point in time has to be invested in these top 100 companies in India.
Then you have large and mid cap. Large and mid cap category definition is 35% of the money has to be
in large cap. 35% of the money minimum has to be in mid cap. So minimum 35 will large cap, minimum 35
in mid cap and then the remaining can be wherever you want. Mid cap definition, as per SEBI's new
categorization, dual is companies having market capitalization from 101 to 250. So one to 100 is
large cap, 101 to 250 is mid cap. Then the third category of fund is mid cap which says minimum 65%
of the money has to be invested in mid cap and the remaining can be either in large cap or small
cap depending on the way the fund wants to operate. Like we said, mid cap is 101 to 250 market capitalization.
Small cap is a category of scheme in which 65% of the money will have to be invested in small cap funds,
small cap stocks, what a small cap, 251 market capitalization and below everything is categorized as small cap.
So to quickly revise, 1 to 100 market capitalization companies, the top 100 companies are large cap,
101 to 250 are mid cap, 251 and below is categorized as small cap. In small cap, 65% of the money will
have to be invested in 251 and below categorization company. Multi cap is a fund in which you leave
it to the fund manager's discretion and the fund manager decides where it wants to invest its money,
large mid small and will dynamically keep changing depending on the way the fund manager visualizes the
markets to behave and perform. So ideally what has happened is basis the scheme categorization
that took place a year and a half back. The returns that you largely saw most of these large cap funds
giving in the past before the scheme categorization has actually become the new multi cap fund.
So if you were, if you've been in the market for a long time and you've been suggesting large cap funds
to clients and you are happy with the kind of returns that large cap funds actually ended up
generating for you in the past, the new categorization multi cap fund is going to be performing exactly
the way large cap funds have performed in the past right. So in my opinion multi cap funds actually
to a greater extent solves most of the problems. The technical difficulty that a large cap fund will
have is 80% of the money has to get invested in the top 100 companies into a greater extent
that flexibility that large cap funds fund manager had in the past is slightly taken away
and hence in my opinion multi cap fund is the new large cap fund. Focus fund is a category which is
very similar to multi cap where you can invest across market capitalization, large means small.
The only difference between multi cap and focus is in focus you can have maximum 30 stocks that
you can invest in. So if you see a multi cap fund today is investing close to 50 to 60 stocks.
A focus fund is a multi cap fund where the bracket how many stocks can you really investing
is a capital 30 stocks at the highest. Then you have something called as dividend yield fund.
Now in my opinion dividend value, contract, sectorial, the other four that we are going to talk a lot
are not funds to be invested. Why? So let's say dividend yield funds is a fund in which the
civic categorization says that you are to invest in funds which are investing stocks which are
dividend yield funds but which are dividend yield funds. What is the cap? How much is the minimum
dividend yield should you have in which you should invest? There are no such specifications given.
And hence according to me this category is ideally going to be misused. Nobody knows
which is a dividend stock which can form part of dividend yield funds in which will not.
Doesn't make sense in my opinion. Same is with value. There is no definition with what is a value fund
or what is a value stock or what is a growth stock. And hence you don't know if that the fund that you
will invest in is doing a value investing or a growth investing because there is no definition of
what is value or what is growth. And hence for me I am somebody who believes that probably
dividend yield funds and value funds are a clear award. You don't need to invest in these funds.
Then there is contra. Again the same logic. What is the definition of contra? Nobody knows.
How do you define contra? You don't know. And you go and see most of these funds. You will
generally see an HDFC or relags being invested in. And all point in time. I don't think this
category again justifies what it is really meant to do. Clear award at my end.
Now again for me I don't do sectorial and thematic investment is because I think it brings in a lot
of sectorial risk. And in my opinion it is very difficult to predict which sector will really end
up doing well. And hence this is a very high beta play. If you are willing to take that bet
where you think irrespective of anything banks will keep performing. And hence I want to do a bank
bank sector fund investment. You are called. But I think to a greater extent with multi focus and
all of these other funds available. I am more comfortable with the risk of just return that a
multi-cap fund or a focus fund or a large cap fund or a media fund can bring in the end of a sectorial
or a thematic team. So I am anti sector. I don't know. Just be understanding what are sector funds?
Sector funds are funds in which let's say a banking sector fund. 80% of the money has to be invested
only in banking stores. What is a thematic fund? Thematic fund is slightly different from a sector
fund. Let's say a banking thematic fund means that I can invest 80% of my money in any
sector which is somewhere associated with the bank. So let's say I can do banking investing.
I can also do real estate investing is because banks lend money to real estate. I can do let's say
infra investing because banks also lend money to interest. So sector is only bank.
Team is banks and some other sectors in and around banks which are directly related to the
banking sector. I don't do sector. I don't do thematic and this is a clear avoided mind.
ELSS all of us know all of us sell ELSS, invest in ELSS. This gives us ATC advantage of
$150,000. Minimum 65% of the money has to be invested in equity. It can go as high as 80.
The remaining stays in debt. So these are the 11 equity funds in which according to me there
are these for dividend yield value, contract, sectoral and thematic which can be annoyed.
And you can look at investing or deciding to invest in the remaining 7 funds.
Now if you talk about hybrid, there are 7 categories of hybrid that you see here.
First is conservative hybrid. What is conservative hybrid? Conservative hybrid is a fund in which
you have to invest or make sure that you are all time invested in equity in the range of 10 to 25%.
And in that you have to be invested all times in the range of 75 to 90.
There is a challenge here that I would want to highlight which I want people to understand it,
take a note about it is that this 10 to 25% in equity is multi-cat. You can do it wherever.
Exactly the same way, this debt of 75 to 90% is across credit. You can do triple A, you can do double
A, that is at the fund manager's discretion. So do not ignore looking at the debt component of the
conservative hybrid to make sure that you know looking at the word conservative, you think this fund
is conservative but your fund is investing in debt on let's say an A minus or an A plus.
So always keep a watch on this. Because the investment here is always going to be less than 65%
in equity. The taxation here is going to be the debt taxation which is less than three years of
investment. You will get added to your income more than three years of investment. You will get
indexation. Second, balance hybrid. You are allowed to move your fund between 40 to 60% in equity and
40 to 60% in debt. So you can be let's say in some cases 40% in debt and 60% in equity and in
some cases you can be 60% in equity and 40% in debt. Again because you are not the same rule applies
for equity in debt. Equity is multi-cap. That is across debt. So keep a watch on the debt portfolio
because balance may not really be balanced if your fund manager is taking a lot of risk on debt.
Tax implication is debt again. If you are investing for less than three years,
your investment will get your income, the gains that you make will get added to your income,
slap 10%, 20%, 30% and tax accordingly. And if it is more than 30%, you will get indexation.
Aggressive hybrid is an interesting category where you are going to invest 60 to 80%
money in equity. You are going to invest anywhere in the range of 20 to 35% in debt. And because you
are going to invest 65% in above money in equity, this has equity taxation. If you invest for less
than one year, you get more short-term capital gains and get taxed at 15%. And if you invest for
more than a year, your gains are taxed at 10%. As of today at the time of recalling this video.
Balance advantage fund and dynamic asset allocation fund is an interesting category where everything
is dynamic. The fund manager will decide how much does he want to invest in equity and how much does
he want to invest in debt very dynamically. So you might have situations where there is a fund
which is 100% invested in equity and at the same time you might have some other fund which is
let's say 60% invested in equity and you might have some other fund which is let's say only 20%
invested in equity. It is dynamic. It is on the fund manager. It is a fund manager's
prologative to decide how much equity, how much debt do they really want to take. Now most fund
houses have a very clearly defined objective in their BAF and BAF category. You should read that
so that you understand whether and what policy, valuation or logic is the BAF and the
fund manager using and make sure that you understand that before you invest money. Let's say for example
HDFC BAF do a greater extent is an equity fund. It does not move a lot of money between equity and
debt. You will see to a greater extent 70-80% of the portfolio at all times is in equity. At the same
time let's say ICICI BAF moves it dynamically. So you will see debt and equity moving up and down
depending on the way they envisage the market. Similarly with Motilalo so on. They keep it
they keep moving up and down depending on the market movement. But a classic difference between
probably what an ICICI BAF does versus and a little white BAF does is ICICI BAF right reduces the
equity component with increase in equity. So every time the market keeps moving up and crosses
and XPE level ICICI will keep reducing the equity level. What a little white BAF does is exactly the
opposite right is where when markets are going up they increase the equity component. So don't just
get carried away by with BAF and F and assume that the fund manager will keep moving equity and
debt as per their understanding. You will have to understand what is the objective of each of these
BAF and F because they are completely different from each other. So don't get carried away there
just by the mean. Multi-asset, so multi-asset is a category in which what he says is you have to invest in
minimum three asset classes 10%. So let's say for example any multi-asset class will at all point in
time have at least minimum 10% in equity, minimum 10% in debt and minimum 10% in gold. Everything
else is fluctuating and dynamic you can do whatever you wish. If you think markets are supposed to fall
you can increase your allocation to gold to a greater extent and so on and so forth. Again
typically you get equity value equity tax implication here because the funds try and make sure that
they are at least 65% in equity and equity equivalent categories like arbitrage. Then you have an
arbitrage fund what an arbitrage fund does is very simple what it does is does arbitrage. So
let's say I have reliance industries trading in NSC market at 1400 and you have reliance industry
trading in futures at 1410. So it will buy in the cash market at 1400 sell in the futures market
at 1400 and 10 and on the last Thursday when the price comes together they will make the 10 rupees
of business. The strategy is for all practical purposes risk-free and this can really be looked at
in terms of investing if you want to do equity if you want to pop money for more than three months.
So if you want to pop money for liquidity for more than three months consider this over a liquid
fund is because in a liquid fund you might have taxation issues of as high as 30% but over
year you will get taxed at 15% and hence post tax arbitrage fund can be a better opportunity while
the risk is almost the same between a liquid and an arbitrage fund. Last is equity savings.
This category is actually not justified or has not done any good to any investors but in that you
have to invest 65% minimum in equity 10% minimum in debt. The remaining 25% can be floating between
debt and equity and you will get an equity taxation. I hope you have understood all the 18 different
types of categories in equity and hybrid that you can invest in and I hope that you will make a
proven decision from now on and not get confused between various categories. Thank you so much.
