morning everybody welcome back so after that after we learned what is asset allocation
what is the importance of asset allocation and post determining asset allocations of the client
we've also learned how to do goal based planning for the client. Now before we move on to actually
picking the right equity mutual fund there is one gap that we'll have to reach between
selecting the fund and what the client wants is understanding a little about macro economics.
Now I have seen a lot of people in the industry go gala or crazy about trying to track macros
very deeply closely but in my honest opinion macro economics is very simple and it's just that we
keep complicating it because there are so many macros that we really want to end up tracking
so you see GDP you see current account deficit fiscal deficit you see where is the CPI moving
WPI moving what is happening to Forex reserves in the country and various other factors that you and I
all look at making macro economics very complicated and a little practical a little less practical to be
used so I'm going to try and give you a solution of how to make macro economics look simple and usable
practical in my opinion macro economics again can be completely tracked by just looking at one
data point which is inflation because everything else that you and I see macro economics
directly or indirectly ends up affecting inflation and hence end up affecting interest rates.
So what I'm trying to tell you is ignore everything else that you hear in macro economics around you
in terms of crude in terms of current account deficit going up going down GDP going up going down
and channelize your entire energy and keep a track only on where inflation and interest rates are
into a greater extent in my opinion you should be able to understand how and where assets are supposed
to move now why do I make that comment let me explain to you so I'm going to help you understand
from the very brief of why inflation and interest rates are enough for you to be able to predict
looking at macros where to a greater extent assets can move let's try and understand
so to start with very basic what is inflation now we say inflation is rising prices of commodities
so we are saying that probably today this laptop is available at 60 grand tomorrow if it is available
at 60 grand we say inflation has gone up and rising prices of commodities of products is what we
call as inflation now my point is why does inflation take place so in my opinion there are
two reasons why inflation takes place first of course most of us know and we've learned this
called demanding supply so we say while demanding increases and supply is less inflation can go up
let me give you an example so let's say this is one laptop that you and I both want to buy and let's
say there are hundreds of us that want to buy this laptop there is only this one laptop available
we say demand is high because there are 100 people who want to buy this laptop supply is less because
there is only one laptop and hence the price will go up why will the price go up the price will go up
because though the manufacturer wants to sell it for 50 he knows there is a lot of demand there is
going to be somebody who will be willing to pay 51,000 to buy this somebody willing to pay 53,000
and there will also be somebody who will be willing to pay 55,000 for the laptop and hence
because of less supply and huge demand the price of the laptop from 50 becomes 55 and that is what
you and I call as inflation now to me inflation is slightly beyond just demanding supply so let's look
at this entire situation where there are hundreds of us who want to buy this laptop there is only one
laptop there is this demand supply gap but none of us have money so if none of us have money or liquidity
do you think in spite of there being such a huge demand supply gap the price of the laptop will go up
I don't think so it's because if you and I don't have money from where will we pay 51,000,
53,000 or 55,000 for a 50,000 product and increase the price of the product right so what I'm trying
to reach to is inflation does not happen only because of demand and supply inflation happens in
a scenario where there is demand supply gap but also there is liquidity in the market
you and I have money because of which the demand supply gap leads to inflation I hope that is very
categorically understood so we are saying inflation not just happens because of demand and supply but
inflation happens because demand and supply is back to it or fueled with or accompanied with liquidity
in the market and hence demand and supply gap leads to inflation let me whose job is it to control
inflation RBI right now if RBI wants to control inflation and RBI knows that there are two reasons
why inflation is happening demand and supply and liquidity do you think RBI can do anything with
demand and supply the answer is no why neither can RBI go to the manufacturer and say why aren't you
producing more when there is a lot of demand nor can RBI come to you and me and say why are you
consuming so much because of you the prices are going up so RBI actually want to control inflation
cannot do anything with demand and supply so the only tool that RBI has to control inflation
is control liquidity if somehow RBI can reduce money in the market then you and I will have less money
and hence we will not be able to increase the price to 61, 63, 65 and hence probably
there is a possibility that inflation can come down which means RBI wants to control inflation RBI
only has 12 which is liquidity now who gives liquidity to the market banks why play you want to buy a
house what do you do take a loan yes you want to buy a car what do you do take a loan yes you want to buy
a bike what do you do take a loan yes today Bajaj finance gives you a loan or an EMI to buy a
denim right so in a country in a developing country like India most of this demand is fueled
with EMI's or with loans right so what I'm trying to say is liquidity is actually a factor which is
dependent on bank giving a lot of loans so if RBI wants to control inflation what RBI will have to
actually do is make sure that banks give out less loans or people take less loans from the banks
in hands whenever inflation goes up the first thing that RBI tries doing is increase interest rates
right now what do I mean when I say increase interest rates so you can look at this as
report increase in report why now look at it this way if RBI increases interest rates
right then the banks then the banks of the money that the banks receive from the market will also be
at a higher rate right because RBI will give money to banks at a higher rate in hands if banks are
receiving money from the market at a higher rate banks are also expected to increase they are lending
rates so if RBI increases interest rates banks get loan slightly expensive in hands banks would
then try to make sure that when banks give out loans banks also make it expensive so now look at it
this way if bank makes the loan expensive would you go ahead and buy the house that you were supposed to buy
give it a thought today roughly a one crore rupee loan that you want to take from the bank would cost
you 85 to 90 thousand rupees of EMI for 20 years if interest rates in the market increase by let's say
50 pass up 50 basis points then your EMI will move to 95 thousand to one lakh rupees a month
now not everybody will be comfortable that their EMI is moved up from 85 thousand to 95 thousand
or or a lack of should be right in hands if inflation is increasing in the market and because of which
interest rates are going up and banks are increasing their lending rates your EMI will become expensive
so if your EMI becomes expensive would you buy the house right away or differ it you would
to a certain extent differ it right would you buy the car on loan or differ it differ it would you buy
the bike on loan or differ it differ it would you buy the laptop on loan or differ it differ it so I'm
talking in general may not be the case with you you might say 5 thousand rupees is no big deal let me
just buy right but I'm talking in general most people who end up taking an EMI are going to be cost
effective right are going to be wondering whether this makes sense to be bought at this point in time
or not which is why what happens is as soon as inflation goes up and interest rates are increased
in the market suddenly people wanting to buy the house car buy laptop go down because their EMI
will go up and incidentally the demand is reduced so nothing happens to the supply the supply is still
the same but when demand reduces you are expecting that the price of the commodity will come down and
that's how RBI tries to curtail inflation so what I'm trying to say is remember always as soon as
inflation goes up the first thing that I've RBI tries doing is reduce liquidity in the market and
one of the ways of reducing liquidity in the market is reducing interest rates now if interest rates
sorry by increasing interest rates if interest rates are increased what and how will equity markets
react so there are two ways of looking at it first demand now as soon as interest rates went up
are you buying the house no are you buying the car no are you buying the bike no are you buying the
laptop no so what do you think has happened to consumption consumption is reduced yes so how do you
think real estate stocks will react if you're not going to buy the house real estate stocks will fall
and because real estate stocks are falling do you think cement stocks will sustain no
so cement stocks will fall do you think steel which is also used to build real estate will sustain
no they'll fall how do you think car manufacturing stocks will react bike manufacturing stocks
will react. All of these will fall because demand to a certain extent has fallen and because
of which people in the market are now anticipating that because interest rates have gone up, demand
has fallen and hence why the stocks should stay at the levels that they are. So real estate
stocks will fall because you will defer your buying of house, cement stocks because if housing
demand fall, cement demand will fall, steel demand will fall, car, maruti, susuki, tata motor,
kind of stocks will fall because you are deferring buying or purchasing your car.
Bajaj auto will fall because you are deferring purchasing your bike. So one way of looking at it is
that the consumption led stocks will fall is because you are assuming consumption will fall.
The second is you will have to understand that sectors like infra, sectors like power
will also start falling is because they have very high debt on their balance sheet. Now what does
that mean? So say for example an infra company took 5,000 crore worth of loan to villa highway
and that loan was given at 8%. Now suddenly when inflation goes up in the market, interest rates are
going up in the market that 8% loan will also become 9% loan yes. So if the 8% loan has become 9%
do you think suddenly the infra companies revenue will start going up? No but expenses have gone up
yes. So if expenses go up and revenue stays the same, how do you think the stocks will react?
The stocks should fall. So there are two ways of looking at this when interest rates goes up,
demand falls, demand for utility falls and hence these stocks should fall.
And at the same time there are other sectors which will fall is because they have very heavy debt
on their books, loans become expensive hence their debt becomes expensive, their expenses go up but
their income is not going up, so the stock should fall. So you will see when interest rates go up,
generally larger part of the equity market falls, larger part because like I said either the utility
falls or the cost of loan has gone up and hence stocks fall. So when inflation goes up and interest rates
you will see equity market broadly falling but are there green shoots within the equity markets
or are there areas which will not fall even when the markets are falling? Yes. So there are pre-dominantly
three sectors that you will see will not generally fall either to a greater extent, rather stay stable
or even go up in cases are FMCG, Pharma and IIT. You will see these three sectors generally
in this entire situation actually not falling rather staying stable or even going up in a couple of
cases. Why do you think this happens? So let's try and understand. Tell me one thing what is FMCG?
Fast moving consumer goods, the daily use products like soap, shampoo, oil,
similar kind of products. Let me one thing if inflation goes up, interest rates go up and hypothetically
as you, hypothetically that the soap that you are using was 50 rupees a bar has now become 52 rupees
do you think that the consumption of the soap will go down because the price has gone up? No right
let's say the oil has become 5 rupees expensive will you stop consuming the oil or reduce the usage of
oil? No to a greater extent which is why in FMCG kind of stocks demand does not fall even when
the price goes up. See in real estate, cement, steel, car, bike, the demand fell. In FMCG the demand
does not fall is because 2-5 rupees you are in there you don't stop consuming the product.
So if the demand is not supposed to fall in FMCG why should the stock fall? Of course,
your argument can be the stock may not fall but why should the stock go up? Good question.
So let's say you are a fund manager and you know that inflation is going up, interest rates are
going up and I know now real estate, cement, steel, car, bike, infra power are supposed to fall.
What do you do? Do you hold on to those stocks or other sell them? So let's say you sold those shares
and now do you stank cash? You don't want to stank cash right? You want to invest it in the equity
market but where? So you look at FMCG at one area where you can invest is because unlike all the
other sectors the demand is at least constant. So what you do is when interest rates go up,
inflation go up, you remove money from real estate, cement, you do not want to stank cash,
you want to pocket somewhere. So you pocket in FMCG is because at least the demand is constant
unlike the other sectors whether demand is falling and hence suddenly because the money moves
from real estate cement infra kind of stocks to FMCG, FMCG stocks either stay stable or go up in the
same scenario that we have discussed. I hope this is understood. To a certain extent, Farma also has
the same story. You and I don't stop consuming, crossing just because it's become expensive,
you and I have a problem. We have to take a medicine. We take that medicine in respect of the
cost. But there is a larger angle to why Farma and IT stocks generally will not fall or stay stable
in a broadly falling market. And the answer to that question is currency. What you have to understand
and please understand is that Farma and IT are amongst the top three export oriented sectors
in our country, which means Farma and IT generate a larger part of their business by exporting their
products. So now you understand if they are into exports, what currency are they making money?
Dollars, right? So now understand this concept. When markets are falling, equity markets are falling,
what do you think FIs are doing? FIs are also selling, right? So if equity markets are falling,
I'm assuming FIs are also selling. So let's say FIs sold the reliance shares that it had.
What currency did FIs receive? Rupees, because when you sell reliance,
stock in the Indian market, you receive rupees, right? Now as FIs, do you take rupees back home? No,
you want dollars. So what you do is when equity markets fall and you want to take the money back home,
you sell rupee, you sell rupee, after having sold equity, the rupee that you receive,
you sell rupee, right? And you buy dollar. Now understand if you are going to sell rupee in such huge
quantity in the market, the value of rupee is going to deteriorate fall. And you're going to buy
such huge quantity of dollar from the market, the value of dollar is going to go up,
which is exactly why when equity market falls, you will after that see rupee falling and dollar going up.
Let me give you a simpler example. Let's say if inflation is going up, what does that mean?
Inflation going up means that your purchasing power is reducing, which means rupees falling as
simple as that, right? So you can use multiple ways to understand, but the point that I'm trying to
make is when equity market falls, after that rupee also falls and dollar goes up. Dollar going up means
that if one dollar was 65 rupees, one dollar becomes 70 rupees, this is what we say
when I say dollar went up, right? So I used to give 65 rupees to buy, let's say, one dollar worth of
crude. Now the value of crude is one dollar only, but I'll have to give 70 rupees to buy that.
Value of rupee falls, value of dollar goes up when the equity market falls, which means
that if I'm a farmer and an IT company, if prior to inflation, while I was receiving one dollar,
I got 65 rupees, now if I receive one dollar, I will receive 70 rupees. So my rupee income has gone up.
I'm still getting paid the same amount of dollars, but in terms of rupee, my income has gone up and
hence my stock does not fall, but rather go up. Very quick revision, I'm saying if inflation goes
up, interest rates will go up, if interest rates go up, typically UNI will not buy real estate and hence
real estate cement and steel stocks go down. UNI will differ buying a car and a bike and hence auto
stocks go down. Generally, what happens in an infrain of our company, kind of companies that they're
extremely heavy on debt, their debt becomes expensive, but their income is still the same,
those stocks go down. So we are saying generally equity market falls when inflation and interest
rates rise, but we are saying FMCG, farm and IT don't fall for two reasons, because over there,
the consumption does not fall, consumption of pharmaceuticals, consumption of FMCG does not fall,
and also especially in case of farm and IT because they are export oriented.
And when market falls, dollar goes up and rupee falls, their dollar income stays the same,
but rupee income goes up and hence those stocks don't fall, right? What happens to gold,
let's say in the same situation, gold also goes up. Why? Is because, not because what the theory
says that when equity is falling, people don't want to take risk and they start chasing gold and gold
goes up. In India, the context is slightly different. We as Indians are net importer of gold.
What currency do we import gold in dollar? So let's say before inflation, one dollar was 65.
So I got one dollar worth of gold. How much was it in India to be 65? Now I have that gold.
It is still one dollar, but how much is one dollar become 70? So the gold that I bought for one dollar,
which to me as Indian lending price was 65, today the same gold internationally is one dollar only,
but how much is one dollar in India 70? So the gold that I bought for 65 rupees has become 70,
though the dollar value is still one dollar, which is by the 65 rupees of gold goes up and becomes 70,
because when the market falls, dollar goes up. So when the market falls, dollar goes up and hence
gold goes up because we import. That's exactly the reason why crude goes up because we import crude,
because we are importing crude and hence crude also goes up. The point that I'm trying to make is
that when interest rates go up, inflation go up, equity market falls, dollar goes up and hence crude
and gold goes up. How do you think bonds react in this situation? There is an extensive
chapter that we do in another program which is how to pick the right debt fund, but in very simple
context, you know when interest rates go up, bond markets fall. Why? Because let's say if you have a
bond today that you've invested in which gives you six percent and then interest rate in the market
increases to seven percent, you are holding a bond which is paying you lower than what the new
interest rate in the market is. Now because your interest rate is lower than the market interest rate,
because your bond coupon is six percent and the market interest rate bond is at seven percent,
your bond value is lower and hence the bond falls. In macro, personally, if you really ask me,
you do not need to track anything else except inflation and interest rate, you would know where exactly
everything else will move in the market. So if you only track, if you only track inflation and you
see inflation going up, you will have to assume interest rates are going up and if interest rates are
up, you know equity markets will fall. If equity markets fall, you know rupee falls, you know dollar
goes up and so you know gold will go up, crude will go up and bonds will go up. This is exactly how
equity markets function. You do not really have to track fiscal deficit, current account deficit,
forex reserves in our country, where is the crude economy, just track inflation interest rate and you will
know exactly how all asset classes will behave. It is actually as simple as this.
So in a growing inflationary situation, you know how this works. What if there is a situation where
interest rates are let's say hypothetically reducing in the market. So let's say inflation is now
going down. I am talking of a situation where inflation is now going down. What happens if inflation
is going down? If inflation is going down, right, which means the exact opposite interest rates will
start going down because if inflation is going down, what does that mean? Inflation going down means
that there is hardly anybody who is buying any assets in the market, right, to make sure, to make sure
that people buy assets in the market, they buy a house, they buy car, they buy bike, right,
are behind decreases interest rates. If RBI decreases interest rates, your EMI on house, car,
bike, laptop all goes down. Enhance consumption is expected to increase, which is why you say,
which is why people start buying house real estate goes up. Enhance, cement rents, steel goes up,
car goes up because you will start buying cars, bike companies go up. Again, because interest rates
are going to drop. The older long that I have taken will reduce in interest rate. My income is still
the same. My expenses go down. Enhance companies with larger debt, ideally benefit of this situation.
And hence we say overall equity markets will go up. How will FMCG Farma and IT react? The opposite.
Why? Okay, so now you will say FMCG, in FMCG just because interest rates have gone down,
why should the stock go down? So my point is, if interest rates have gone down, right,
an inflation has gone down. The soap that you are using for 50 rupees, let's say a high
pathetic killing now becomes 48. Does that mean you start using the soap more?
All right. So what I am trying to say is consumption does not increase because interest rates have
gone down in FMCG, right? So consumption in FMCG is the same, but consumption in cement, steel,
automobile has gone up. Now if you were the fund manager and there are two options, there is one FMCG
where consumption is same. There is another real estate, steel cement where consumption is expected
to increase. Where do you want to put money? Of course, whether consumption is increasing, right? So
you remove money out of FMCG and put that money in where the consumption is increasing. Hence FMCG
either will stay stable or fall in the situation. Why will Farma and IT fall same logic?
If inflation is going down, which means your purchasing power will increase,
rupee will go up, dollar will fall. If dollar is supposed to fall, 65 dollar will now become 60.
So FMCG and Farma, where I was receiving money in dollar, I am going to receive the same $1,
but how much is $1 now? 60. I was receiving 65 in the past. Now I am receiving 60. How do you think
my stocks will react? Will fall. Gold will fall, crude will fall. Why? Is because the $1 gold that I
bought at 65? Now in Indian context is how much? 60 rupees. Internationally, the gold may be $1,
but in Indian context, the 65 rupee gold has become 60. Similarly, with crude, so gold and
crude will fall. Why will bonds go up? Bonds will go up. For a simple reason, that interest rates have
gone down. So if I have hold a bond with 6% coupon and if interest rates in the market have gone down,
so the new bond in the market will be 5% coupon, but I have a 6% coupon bond. So my bond will be
valued higher. So the prices will be off. This is exactly how everything in the market functions.
Just click a snap of this and you will know this is how markets function. You do not ideally need
to track hundreds of things in macro. Just keep an eye on inflation and interest rate and you will
know where equity markets are going. One, very practical discussion is something that I want to
help you understand now. So we are basically saying that if inflation goes up, interest rates go up
and hence equity funds. While this is absolutely correct, there is one element that you and I have to
understand. In that element is, inflation actually going up also means that there is purchasing power,
and hence it should be positive for equity as well. What I want you to understand is always remember,
RBI will time and again come out with their levels that they are comfortable with in terms of
inflation. Currently that you and I discuss, RBI says that I am very comfortable with inflation between
4 and 6%. So now if inflation stays between 4 and 6%, it may not be negative. So if inflation
today is 4 and it becomes 5 and then it becomes 6 is actually not negative. It only demonstrates
that the GDP is doing well. People have money and hence people are spending that money and because
people are spending money, GDP is going up and hence inflation is going up. So use this entire
context that I explained to you as below 4% theory and above 6% theory. So if inflation goes above
6%, it can be negative for equities and if inflation falls below 4%, from there on it can become positive
for equities is because below 4%, RBI will start reducing interest rates and hence you can start
accumulating stocks for a longer duration and above 6%, RBI will start increasing interest rates.
Is where you will start becoming slightly negative for equities. So use this entire context that I
explained to you with RBI's 4% and 6% range in money. I hope I could have made or I have made
macroeconomics very simple for you and help you understand why you can track this entire asset space
by just tracking inflation and interest rate, forget about everything else that people complicate
your and my world within terms of macroeconomics. Thank you so much.
