After we understood what are the different types of returns and what are the different types
of risks, here comes the most important video in our risk and return series. Now, this is the
video which is exactly going to help us understand how to pick the right right fine or how to pick
the right equally fine right. Now, why do I make this statement? Let us go from the very basic.
Suppose if I tell you case 1, fund A has generated 12% return, fund B has generated 13% return, tell me
which fund is good. Now, ideally theoretically you might get inclined to tell me that fund B is good
but mind you, you don't know how much risk has fund B taken to generate 15%. So, you cannot just look
the returns and justify whether fund B is good. You will have to look at the risk that each of
these funds took to generate the equivalent return is where you will be able to figure out what
makes more sense right. So, in case 1, I can't really very honestly figure out fund B is good
because I don't know the risk it took. So, let us move forward. Now, what do you think?
Fund A is good of fund B. Now, because the risk is constant which is 1 and 1 in both the cases,
now it becomes easier for me to understand that look both the funds took the similar risk but fund B
gave higher returns and hence fund B is good right. But in the real world this is how the situation
looks like. It is not as simple where your risk is always going to be constant right and you will
just have to look at the returns and figure out what makes more sense. All the four variables will
be different. Returns will be different, risk will be different, return will be different, risk will
be different. Now, without doing some basic level mathematics it is very difficult to right now
justify whether in case 3, fund B is good or fund B is good is exactly where the concept of risk
adjusted returns come into picture in mutual funds right. These are the most most important things
that we have to understand. If you have to understand how to select mutual funds looking at the
past performance of the fund right. First risk adjusted returns we are going to learn 3 types,
shop, trainer and ginseng. First last time break ice with what is risk adjusted returns.
So, like the name suggests risk adjusted returns. The answer that I am going to get is always going
to be return but what is this return? This return is the return after I have adjusted for the risk.
So, after I have taken care of the risk adjusted the risk taken care of the risk what is the return
that is left behind is the risk adjusted return. Now, let me simply help you understand this concept
right. Let us say there are two funds, fund A and then there is fund B. We are saying let us say
returns risk right. We are saying hypothetically as you fund is able to generate 12% fund B is able
to generate 13%, but the risk in fund is 0.9. Risk in fund B is 1.1. Now, because these two variables
are different I am not able to compare the returns and hence I want to understand whether fund A is good
or fund A is bad. Let us try and understand. First let us look at fund A. I am saying how much return
is fund A generated you are saying 12%. Now, my argument to you is that look fund A is not generated
12%. You know why is because 100 rupees that I invested in fund A had I invested that money
in a bank fixed deposit I could have made 7% return without taking any risk. Yes or no? Yes,
but because you got me you got me to invest in equity mutual funds I invested and I got 12%.
So, what is the actual return that equity mutual fund has given you right. You can argue and tell
me that the actual return that the fund has generated is only 12% is because though the total return
is 12 I could have got this by investing in a fixed deposit also right. So, these returns 7%
could have been generated without taking any risk. So, if the fund generated 12 the fund has
actually generated only 5% returns for me by taking how much risk? 0.9% right. Fund has generated
5% risk by the 5% returns by taking 0.9% risk which means if the fund took one unit of risk
the fund could have generated 5.55% returns basic mathematics right. So, I divided 5 by 0.9 I got
5.5 by 1. So, I am saying just to repeat fund would have given me 12% fair enough,
but I could have got 7% without taking any risk. So, the fund has actually generated only 5%
returns for me for 5% how much risk did you take 0.9? So, I divided 5 by 0.9 and I said
that for every unit of risk that the fund took the fund could have generated 5.5% returns.
Makes sense? Now, let us look at fund review. I am saying in fund B the fund has generated 13%
right, but again you are arguing that I could have got 7% in 50%. So, the fund has actually generated
only 6% for 6% how much risk did the fund take for 6% the fund took 1.1 unit of risk which means
for every unit of risk that the fund took how much return the fund generated 5.4 which means fund A
if took 1 unit of risk generated 5.5 if fund B took 1 unit of risk generated 5.4. Now,
I have both funds taking the same risk 1 unit 1 unit, but there is this fund which gives 5.5 there
is with this fund which gives 5.4% return which fund is good fund A is good. Now, look at the
situation like this and you only look at the returns you would have said fund B was good right,
but when you look at risk and return together in tandem you understand that for every unit of risk
fund A is better over fund B. So, given a choice I will go for fund A because fund A has a higher risk
adjusted return. Now, one of the risk adjusted return is sharp ratio what is sharp ratio sharp
ratio is a risk adjusted return which considers standard deviation as the risk. What do I mean?
Let us say fund A generated 12% returns 7% could have been generated without taking any risk right.
Now, if this risk that I am talking to you of is standard deviation right, then we are saying divided
by 0.9. So, we are saying 5% divided by 0.9 of standard deviation 5.55 divided by 1 standard deviation.
So, you are saying if the standard deviation was 1 fund could have generated 5.55 this 5.55
is the sharp ratio very simple if I am taking the risk as standard deviation in this calculation
then the answer that I am getting is sharp ratio, but if I am taking the risk if I am taking the risk
as beta let us say this was not standard deviation this was beta right and look at fund B I am saying
13 minus 7. So, I could have got 5 sorry 6 divided by beta risk 1.1 which means the fund could have
generated 5.4% for every 1 beta risk it took then this 5.4% becomes the train or ratio.
What I am trying to explain to you is this calculation stays the same what 12% minus whatever the risk
3 is in the market divided by risk if I take risk as standard deviation the answer is sharp if I take
risk as beta the answer is train or right and you understood you understood that higher the
sharp or higher the train or is better because the answer we are getting is return look you are
we got 5.5 here we got 5.4 so we said this was good right because this 5.5 is return so 5.5 return
is better over 5.4 so what I am trying to say is higher the sharp ratio better higher the
train or ratio better so if I am comparing to funds fund A has one sharp fund B has 1.2 sharp
ratio I will say fund B is good fund A has 4 as train or fund B has 3.2 I will say fund A is good
because fund A has 4 train or higher the sharp or higher the train or is better because the answer
that you are finding in risk adjusted returns is returns right and you do not have to calculate any
of these things guys you do not have to calculate CAGR rolling returns IRR XIRR standard deviation
beta sharp train or it is all given to you in the fact sheet or on various websites that I am going
to take you all you have to do is be able to read what it means and its interpretation right very
quickly I am going to revise this all over again to make sure that you and I are on the same picture
so I am saying let's say returns then let's say beta and let's say standard deviation and let's say
risk free very quickly okay so we are saying fund A fund B fund A as a return of 15% fund B as a return
of 20% fund A as a beta of 1 fund B as a beta of 1.5 fund A as a standard deviation of 10 fund B
as a standard deviation of 15 if the risk free rate is 8% now we have to figure out should I invest
in fund A or fund B so what will I do first I will find the sharp ratio now you do not have to find
the sharp ratio it is already calculated but just we are understanding what is the return of fund A
15% but fund A has not generated 15% why because investing in FD could have given me 8% so fund A
actually gave me only 7% returns right I hope everybody is with me to generate 7% of return how much
standard deviation risk it took 10 look it is sharp ratio and hence and taking the risk as standard
deviation so I get answer as 0.4 so my sharp ratio of fund A is 0.7 similarly I will find sharp
ratio of fund B so sharp ratio of fund B is how much what's my return 20 I would have got
how much without taking any risk 8 so the fund has actually generated only 12 for generating 12
fund to how much standard deviation risk 15 right now I am saying that the fund has generated a sharp
ratio of 0.8 so fund A has a sharp ratio of 0.7 fund B has a sharp ratio of 0.8 you do not have to
calculate 0.7 and 0.8 we will already be given we only have to understand that 0.8 is good
because for every unit of risk for every unit of risk fund A generated 0.7% return
for every unit of risk fund B generated 0.8% similarly let's say I want to look at
trenor so I will say fund A generated 15 fund could have got 8% without taking any risk so fund A
has only generated 7% but to generate 7% how much risk did fund A take beta risk 1 which means
the trenor ratio of fund A is 7 what's the trenor ratio fund B I will say 20 minus 8 20 minus 8
fund could have generated 12% but to generate 12% fund to how much risk 1.5 beta risk which means
for every unit of risk fund generated 8% now for every unit of beta risk fund generated 7% fund A
for every unit of beta risk fund B generated 8 which one is good for me you don't have to calculate
any of these things all of these things will already be given to you on the fact sheet and the websites
I will take you to all you have to understand is 7 trenor is not good 8 is good or 0.8 is good versus 0.7
I hope shop and trenor is absolutely clear to you let's try and now understand Jensen's
alpha people call it alpha so you might not hear the word Jensen to often what is alpha so let's say
I have 100 rupees I have 100 rupees I have a couple of options to invest this 100 rupees first
because I am completely risk ever I will say I will only do a 60% so if I do a 60% I get paid how much
7% now there may be somebody like you who comes to me and tells me you know what this does not even
beat inflation why don't you at least invest in the market so I tell you that look if I am going to
invest in the market my at least minimum expectation is going to be higher than 7 so let's say 12%
because I am going to take risk but there is this third person comes to me you know what this is
called passive investment but there are very good fund managers in the market who can
who can get you better returns than what the nifty as an index can generate forward so if I am going
to invest in an active fund I will invite expect more returns so this is my expectation of the 100
rupees that I have if I don't want to take risk I am getting 7 if I am taking nifty risk I want 12%
12% is what 7 I want because I am getting without taking any risk and I am asking for 5% more
because I am investing in the market correct and if I am going to do active investments active
investments I need 14% which means I am getting 7 without taking any risk I want 7 because I am
investing with an active fund manager now this is the fair expectation that anybody will have while
he is trying to do investments right now what is Jensen's issue right first let's time figure out
that if I am investing in a mutual fund how much return should I expect I am asking a simple question
that if risk free rate in the market is 6% okay let's say 7 that's our example and the fund has a
beta of 1 fund has a beta of 1 and the last three years average of the market return has been 12%
right I want to understand how much return should I expect from the fund right so I will say look
without taking any risk I am getting 7% because that is risk free but because I am going to invest in
the market I want additional 5% returns right investing in the market additional 5% and if your funds
beta is 1 like I explained to you give me 1 times of the risk that you take so if this is the return
I am going to make if this is the return I am going to make by investing in the market right give me
depending on the beta that you are taking give me multiples of that return so if your beta is 1
I want minimum risk free plus I want 1 times 1 time of the market which means I want 12%
returns see now beta is 1 and if market is giving 12 go back to our beta understanding if your funds
beta is also 1 the return that your fund will generate has to be close to market not 12% that's
exactly what we got but there is a small catch here let's say risk free rate is 7% your funds beta
is 2 and the market has an ability to generate 12% now I am asking you what is the return your funds should
generate right your fund will not generate 2 times of returns on the market like we learned in beta
let me explain to you how and why what is the minimum return you will expect 7% plus because you are
investing in the market you want 5% more because you are investing in the market you want 5% more
now your beta is 2 correct you don't get twice the beta of risk free just because you are investing
in a mutual fund do you think you will get paid twice of risk free no you are only going to get twice
of the risk that you are taking and hence the minimum expectation that you should have from the fund
which has 2 beta is 17 which has 1 beta is how much 12 similarly let's say if your funds beta is
0.5 what is the minimum expectation you should have from the fund 7 because that is risk free plus 5
because you are investing in the market but are you taking the market risk no your beta is 0.5
funds beta so you will get only half of 0.5 so you will get 7 plus 2.5 10 points so what am I trying to
explain to you if your funds beta is 1 right what is the minimum expectation that you will have from
the fund as good as the market if your funds beta is 2 you will have written expectations higher
than the market but that is not 12 into 2 that is 17 because you don't get 2 times of risk
free you only get 2 times of the risk you took if your funds beta is 0.5 you can expect market
returns you can say 12% is the return you want you will get less than 12% how much 10 points
now what is alpha alpha is the difference between this minimum expectation you had
versus what the fund actually delivered not try and disturb let's say I am telling you
the fund here actually delivered 15% what was your minimum expectation 12 what did the fund generate
15 so the fund gave you an alpha of 3% you're giving 3% more over your minimum expectation
let's say return on the portfolio here is also 15% what is your alpha your alpha is minus 2
by now look at look at it very well you will say that the market benchmark generated 12%
in the fund generated 15 so the fund did very well no your fund took twice the risk
what was the minimum expectation 17 I did the fund gave 15 so the fund actually gave you 2%
less than the minimum expectation your funds alpha is not plus 3 3% more than the index it is
minus 2 because depending on the 2 beta risk it took it actually had to generate 17 but it generated
only 15 let's say if your fund generates 15 here as well in case 3 what is the alpha what is the
minimum that you were expected to find generate 10.5 you are you are not expected to generate 12
because the market was 12 you've taken half the risk so you were to generate less than the market
how much 10.5 how much did you generate 15 so your alpha is 4.5 so alpha is not benchmark
minus actual performance alpha is minimum return expected minus performance right now again you don't
have to do any of these calculations you will have directly alpha calculated all you have to
know is 4.5 alpha is better than 3 and 3 is better than minus 2 because at the end of the day it's the
return that you are finding I hope Jensen alpha sharp Renoir is absolutely clear and hence your
absolutely clear we risk return and risk adjusted returns now there are a couple of other
ratios that I'm going to explain to you in the next video and then I will help you understand
how do you pick a fund looking at the past data thank you
