So now that we've understood risks, we've understood returns, we've understood risks,
adjusted returns.
In this video, we will try and understand how do we actually end up picking a fund based
on past performance, right?
So out of everything that we've learned, of course we can implement all of that, but in
my 12 years of investing journey, I've realized that these are the five things that you see
on your screen.
Is actually what is important, and if you can filter funds based on these five things,
more or less you will have the right kind of pick that you will be able to figure out.
So we are going to pick funds looking at five data points.
The three year rolling over 10 years, we'll look at the SOTINO ratio because we want to see how
well they've protected the downside, we want to look at alpha because we want to see how well they've
done over in terms of return over the risk that they took, and very importantly we want to see how
they perform while the markets have been going up and how they perform while the markets have been
coming down, right?
So what we're going to do is pick up two funds very randomly and try and figure out how do they do
on all of these five parameters, right?
So here is what I've written, fund A and all the five parameters, fund B and all the five parameters.
Let's try and figure out how is the fund doing on all of these things.
The fund selection is pretty random, right, and do not kind of map it with anything else, right?
So if I want to find out average three year rolling over 10 years, I'll have to go to advisor coach.
So first I go to advisor coach, I go to MF research, I go to rolling returns versus
benchmark, right? My internet may be slightly slow so you'll have to pardon me on that.
Okay, so perfect, here we go. So I am looking at one randomly picked fund where I'm trying to see
what has been the performance. So let's say Nippon and your large.
So here's the Nippon and your large cap fund. I'm going to look at three year rolling over 10 years.
So I'm going to change these to 2010. So 29th of May 2010, right, is what I started will be three
years rolling. I click submit. Yeah, here you go. I get the average. So the average that the fund
has delivered is 14.55, 14.55. Is it better than the benchmark? Yes, it is decently better than the
benchmark and hence I don't have any troubles with this. So that's been my average. Let's look at
the average that the fund B has been able to generate. Let's say access YouTube. This is purely from
education perspective. Do not consider this as a buying or a selling recommendation. Please.
So we will go to MF research. We'll go to rolling returns versus benchmark. Okay, in funds we write
access YouTube. I will change the date to 2010 and three year rolling submit. So what has been the
three year? Okay, 14.13. Has it been able to beat the benchmark, but comfortably? 14.13, right? So
fund A has a rolling return. Three are rolling over 10 year or 14.55. Fund B has 14.33. Not a very
major difference. Now what I'm going to do is look at sortino. I can get sortino on value research.
So I go to value research. I type the phone in large. So okay, the sortino is minus 0.19 and it is
lower than the category and the benchmark. So ideally I would have left this investment here only.
I would have not gone ahead with this fund because it is not it has not been able to beat the benchmark
nor the category, but because we are discussing about choosing between two funds will continue. So we
are saying sortino is minus 0.19. Let's look at funds B is sortino. See, we have a lot of choice,
right? Why we have a lot of choice? Why settle for something which has not been able to perform on
risk adjusted return versus the benchmark or the category? What's the sortino? Nice. Look,
the sortino is higher than the benchmark and the category average. 0.29. So had I been looking at this
fund independently, I would have continued. First one, I would have stopped it at that point in time is
because it has not been able to beat neither the benchmark nor the category, right? Now let's look at alpha.
Alpha is available on the same website. So alpha in our fund 2 is 5.33 which is brilliant. 5.33 means
that I have been able to beat the category, sorry, I have been able to beat the minimum required return
at my end by 5%. So if the minimum requirement was 14 depending on the risk I took, I have done 14
plus 5.33 like I explained to you in alpha. So this is really good. Let's look at the other fund.
So we are getting our sharp and we are getting our alpha on value research and we are getting our
rolling returns on advisor coach minus 3.14 minus 3.14 which means if I was expected to generate 15,
I have generated 15 minus 3.14. So again like I said at 14 was level this fund was out but again it
proves in alpha that this fund is again no good, right? Now I want up capture and down capture which
I am getting morning stuff. So I go to morning star, I write my funds name. Yeah,
it will take me to the funds detailing and on the funds detailing I go to risk and ratings.
Yeah, here you have, here you have the up capture, down capture. Now the up capture, now this is for
three years like you see here, this is for three years, right? Make it 10 years because we are comparing
most of these things on a 10-year basis. So on a 10-year basis the fund has had a decent up capture,
right? Where versus the index it has been able to do a good job and versus the category also it has
been able to do a fair job, right? So I am saying up capture is 106, higher than 100 so good.
Down capture should have been lower than 100 is where the fund is stopped which means the fund has
been able to perform better while the markets are going up. The fund has not really been able to
perform well when the markets are going down over the last 10 years. Okay, let's look at fund B's
up capture, down capture. So I will go to risk and ratings. Sorry for the internet please,
taking slightly longer than I expected. So when I go to risk and rating I will go to 10 years.
Okay, here is where I get the up capture and the down capture. So up capture, not that great.
So the fund has really not been able to push during the while the markets are going up side
upwards. This fund has been slightly underperforming but look at this, this fund has been doing a
phenomenal work to protect the downside which means on the downside this fund has roughly
100 minus 77 or 23% outperformance over the index which is brilliant. The way I look at it is
if I am not able to perform during the up side no problem but if I am able to perform my down
perform better on the downside. That much loss that the fund would have ideally got is mitigated
and hence the bounce back is superior. So I would even to look at the situation and say up capture
under performance by 8% but down capture over performance by 23% I would still say this is brilliant.
So if you look at this, see look at it, in terms of returns also this is almost the same
on sotin or ratio, this fund is good. Okay, let me just highlight points which are good.
sotin or this fund is good, alpha, this fund is brilliant. And down capture, this fund is good.
Versus that there is only one thing that this fund scores on which is the up capture ratio.
And like I told you if I have to choose between up capture and down capture performance I will
definitely look at down capture performance because the more you are able to protect your downside
you will be able to do a phenomenal work on your upside. To my mind this is a no-brainer that fund
be is a far superior choice over a fund day. And I hope you've also been able to understand how
just looking at these five simple data points I can figure out which fund is really done well
and which has not. Whereas you're I'm not only looking at returns or risk I'm looking at returns
also in terms of rolling I'm looking at risk return in terms of sotino and alpha and I'm also looking
at how has the fund performed during the up trend of the market and the down cycle of the market.
And that gives me a fair understanding that over your fund be makes a brilliant choice over
fund day. And I'm sure you've been able to understand how to look at two given funds to you
depending on how the funds are performed looking at the past data. In the next video I'm going to
help you understand how do you look at funds right looking at the forward data or the current data
which can be interpreted for forward performance. Thank you so much.
