So now we are going to discuss about something interesting, but at the same time it is not as easy as it may sound to you right now.
Let's say for example, having learned through this content you went back, you had some 10 large-cap fonts that you looked into,
and use those five things that we discussed looking at the history and figured out three good fonts out of those 10 fonts,
uh, basis they are past performance, past performance. Now let's say you've got three fonts that you've identified,
all three look really good to you in terms of their consistency in the past in terms of performance.
But today you have to pick one of them, and you want to make sure that you pick the right one which makes you the best kind of returns with the lowest kind of risk.
Now for you to be able to do that, it is not going to be an easy task, right?
It's because all of these fonts are managed by very, very popular, very knowledgeable fun managers and their team,
and they would definitely have a reason for why they've invested, where they've invested.
So how do you pick up that which is the front amongst the three fonts that can end up doing well?
With my little 12 years of experience I can very confidently tell you it is actually not the stock which generates return,
it is actually the sector which generates return. So let me give you two examples before I move I added to prove my point.
All of you all have been observing the HDFC fonts over the last couple of years have not been doing well.
And you and I both know what is the reason. The reason is they are love and affection and concentration towards PSU.
And PSU has not been doing well and hence the overall performance of the company has been falling in terms of competitive,
ness with other funds. Similarly if you go back and look at Franklin funds over the last one and a half year, two years,
you will see those funds on the equity sides are also not performing is it is because they have a very high allocation towards the auto.
So go to the archives of the funds and pick up the monthly portfolio you will understand the allocation towards auto
and auto has not been doing well at all over the last one.
What I am trying to tell you is before you choose one amongst the three funds,
one of the most important data points that you really look at to be in a position to confidently recommend a fund is look at their sector allocation.
Let me take you a month back. Let's say you and I go a month back start of April and these are the March, month and sector allocations of three funds,
fund A fund B fund C. Now I tell you the look at these three funds sector allocation.
And tell me according to you which fund has allocated correctly and to the right kind of sectors.
Pause it here start after 10 minutes, 5 minutes after you are clear or what your answer is whether it is this portfolio, this or this.
And then only here what I will say ahead so pause.
So now let's say these are three funds and I have talked you about a month back.
Now let me help you understand what is my analysis and what I think should have worked or not worked and what is the final outcome.
Now look at this first and bank allocation of 22.84.
See understand most of these funds will have allocation to banks in the range of 20 to 30% because that is the highest weight
or very close to the highest weight that banks even have or financials have and Nifty also.
So Nifty has 30% weight towards bank these funds cannot really ignore banks.
So forget about these funds having banks most of these funds will have banks but look at industrial capital goods 10.23%.
Now 10.23% of the fund is invested in a company which makes machines and those machines give final finish goods.
Tell me one thing which 60 days of lockdown which factories working.
If factories are not working do you think there is demand for more machinery to make machines and produce goods.
I don't think so. And hence according to me this is a wrong allocation.
Also look at auto 7.72% to auto.
Now with 60 days of lockdown that you and I have witnessed of course I am talking in hindsight but exactly what I am trying to tell you.
That none of us have actually used vehicles right.
Do you think in these 60 days we will go out and purchase new vehicles right.
We are not allowed to go out what are we going to do with purchasing vehicles.
So according to me of the top three two sector allocations were completely wrong in fund A.
Let's look at fund B. Software 16.88%. Brilliant allocation.
All of us have moved to zoom online learning.
So basically what I am trying to say is everything is moved on the internet software technology brilliant allocation according to.
Pharmaceuticals during these times you cannot not have a pharmaceutical focus investment.
If you go back to all of these similar situations that have happened pharmaceutical stocks have really gained right.
And third telecom of course with geo coming up with so many deals automatically the entire telecom industry altogether will look very positive.
So I think all the three allocations are brilliant in this particular fund and this particular fund according to me should do it.
Let's look at the third fund.
Banks like I said there will always be an allocation. Internet software and services have just told you brilliant allocation.
15% another software 14 something which means close to 30% of investment is done in technology or software related companies.
Versace 16 here. So I think this fund as well as this fund both of these funds are very well placed to generate returns over time.
Whereas I am not very confident about this fund because of whatever we spoke.
Now let's see if the logics that I have or the way I interpreted the situation did it really work out the single.
This fund over the last one month has given minus 7.73% returns.
This fund has given plus 4.7% return and this has given 6.49%.
All three are multi cap funds in the same situation.
One is plus 7% another is minus 7% sector allocation is extremely important.
So today if you have to select the fund out of the three funds that you selected basis the past performance do not neglect the sector allocation.
Now of course it is not going to be easy for you to figure out which sector we work and which not.
In hence you have to be updated with what is happening in the market.
Use a little of your logic talk to fund managers and people around.
Read fund manager commentaries and develop your own understanding of what we work and what we will not work.
Now let me give you an example of something that I think can work now.
So with pandemic and kind of situation around even if this logs log down opens one.
Do you really think that people like you and me will now take to the train or the local transport to.
To move from one location to another I doubt because all of us will really be scared which is why I think there is going to be a sudden requirement or a sudden push for buying automobile.
Now of course because of the log down there has been a problem with the business is not doing well salary is being reduced and stuff like that.
So I am not very sure if four willers will move but I am very confident that the two willers face will that is one.
So if I find a fund in which the top three four allocations one of the allocations is towards two willers I think that is a positive bet.
Second let's say once the log down opens every all of us will start using our vehicles to commute again the petroleum product consumption will increase.
And hence I think once the log down opens up allocation towards petroleum products marketing companies will really add a lot of value to the portfolio right.
So the point that I am trying to make is at this point in time I think these are the two sectors which should really do well for the coming period right now of course your fund manager understands but it is not necessary that all the fund managers will think alike.
But if this is what you gathered and thought look out for funds which have sector allocations to petroleum and two willers is where according to me the funds will actually perform where the allocation to these sectors are large.
So which is this is how every month you will have to look back at the fund sectorial allocation and figure out and see if the sectorial allocation is in sync with what you think will work and then yes continue if you think it is not in sync with what you work you rather not stay invested in that fund.
So if you really want to be able to take a step forward in selecting which portfolio makes sense don't actually waste your time looking at the stock what you have to do is the analysis at the sectorial level.
Second and another thing that you should according to me look at before deciding which fund makes a lot of sense is first understanding when does growth strategy work and when does value strategy work.
So here is the data in front of you over the last 45-50 years of course this is US market but I'm trying to explain to you a point is when does growth work and when does value work let's try and understand.
So look at this from 1989 to 1999 it was the time towards the build up to the dot com bubble so in 2000 is when the market crashed we know but from 1989 towards 2000
the markets were going up so you see when the markets were going up what strategy worked growth blue is growth right now in 2000 the crisis hit and the market started falling.
So at the peak of the valuation in 2000 from then on when the market started going down what strategy worked value growth was minus 40% value was 15 right.
So what am I trying to tell you when the markets are going up there is momentum it is growth stocks which work while you are at the peak right and you see a very little upside from there on is where you should move towards value is because value will perform on the way down and not growth and growth will use a lot of money right.
So always remember this very very very important thing if you think you are at the peak and you yet want to do equity investment is where you invest in value.
If you are somewhere in the middle or at the bottom and you think there is a long way still to go for the markets to go up is very good growth today while I talk to you markets are 30% down from the top right and I think this is the time that you can invest in growth.
But the point is how do you understand whether this fund is growth or this fund is value right.
So you can do a lot of data crunching and I can show you if at all but I think it is too much to do and very little to get there are ready data points available for you to figure out what is growth and what is value.
So what do you do you look at the entire portfolio P E and P B before I move ahead let me explain to you what P E is just to make sure that all of us are on the same wavelength right.
So for us to understand P E first we will have to understand what is EPS because unless we don't understand what is EPS we can't understand what is P E.
So one number one that we will try and figure out is what is EPS earnings per share you call it earnings per share.
So let's say for example I am reliance industries and reliance industries after having paid all the taxes all salaries and everybody that you have to pay has generated some 1000 rupees worth of profit after tax right.
So the profit after tax of reliance industry this year is 1000 rupees.
Now let's say if reliance industries has 500 shares in the market 500 shares which means how much has reliance industries earned per share since saying earning per share I earned 1000 rupees total there are 500 total shares I have earned 2 rupees per share right.
So per share that I have in the market I am earning 2 rupees on it this is called earnings per share.
So for the number of shares that I have how much am I earning the formula is given as very simple terms I am not going into technicalities that divided by number of outstanding shares right.
So if I have 500 shares and I make 1000 rupees as a company for share I make 2 rupees of profit after tax.
Now of course all of you all know the higher the profit you make the better it is.
So if there are 2 companies to choose between in the same sector and everything else being same one as an EPS of 2 and one as an EPS of 5 in very simple terms this company is a better company to invest in.
Because it is making more money per share than this particular company.
So earning per share is in our case I am earning 2 rupees per share but now let's say for example this companies share price this companies share price in the market is 20 rupees per share which means for a company which is earning 2 rupees per share it is trading in the market at 20 rupees per share
10 times the value so earning earning is 2 rupees but I have to pay 10 times it to buy the share right.
This is what you call as the PE ratio price 2 earnings ratio 1 years earning is 2 rupees how many years earning do I have to pay to buy the share I have to pay 10 years earning.
10 years earning to buy the share which is why which is what you call as the PE multiple.
PE is price upon EPS what is the price 20 rupees per share what is the earning per share 2 rupees.
So what is the price earning multiple that you are paying 10 you are paying 10 times the money of the earning to buy the share 10 times.
In other terms you are paying 10 years of earning to buy the share which is why it is said higher the PE may not be good because hypothetically let's assume the PE is 100 which means if the earning is 2 rupees you are paying 200 rupees to buy the share or you are paying 100 years of earning to buy the share today.
Having said this I am not saying that higher PE is bad all I am saying is theoretically at this point in time in basic understanding that you and I have higher the PE may not always be bad or theoretically you may say higher PE is not good but practically higher PE may not always be bad.
The reason is that the reason why the PE is high may also be because the market is expecting the earnings to increase which means if the earning today is 4 and if somebody is expecting the earning to become sorry the earning today is 2 and if somebody is expecting the earning to become 4.
Then technically you are buying it today at 5 P you know there is no 10 P so PE can also be higher if there is somebody who is expecting increase in earnings.
Now I hope you understood what is EPS you understood what is PE let's try and understand what is price to book or you also call it as price to book value P by B.
Let's first understand what is book value means that if today I have to shut down my company how much money will be left behind for every shareholder.
So let's say my company has a liability of 1000 rupees my company has assets of let's say let's say 1700 rupees liability means I have no one's outstanding that I have to pay assets means I might have land I might have machinery so on and so forth.
If I want to shut down my company what will I do I will sell the assets I will roughly receive 1700 rupees what will I do with the 1700 rupees I will pay 1000 rupees to whoever I had to pay and what will be left behind in the company will be called book value.
So book value will be 700 now the book value is 700 book value is 700 let's say the number of outstanding shares in the market so this company has how many shares let's say 70 shares in the market.
So per share how much money will you get back so book value per share book value per share is 700 rupees by 70 which is 10 which means if this company has to shut down today sell all assets pay back all liabilities every share so if you hold one share you get 10 rupees from the company you hold 5 shares you get 50 rupees from the company.
This is called book value per share book value per share in our case of discussion discussion is let's say 10 rupees now let's try and understand what is price to do let's say there is a stop trading in the market add 50 rupees and the book value per share is 10 which means you are buying this company you are buying this company
by paying 5 times of the book value the company has to shut down today how much do you get back per share 10 but you are willing to pay 50 for this company which is 5 times which is 5 times which is called book value.
Now of course theoretically again higher the book value means higher the price that you are paying but it is not necessary that higher the book value is higher the price again the same way that I explained to you last time that somebody may be expecting earnings to do better.
And hence the price is higher similarly here somebody may be expecting the book value to be much better and hence they are willing to pay a higher price.
So theoretically higher P E higher P B may not be good but practically you just cannot look at the higher P and higher P B and say that they are over value I hope this is absolutely clear.
Now let me help you understand what should you do.
So now you have already looked at the sector and you understood which are the 2-3 sectors that a fund has invested in and now you are happy that probably the thought that you had with respect to the sector in which fund manager should be investing is the one it has invested in.
So you are happy with the sector allocation now you want to figure out whether this is growth or this is value and what is the one in which I should be investing.
I can show you a model that you can develop and build and write but that will not solve your purpose I have to give you some doable practical solution and that is what I am going to do.
So always remember while you are at the peak while you are at the peak of the valuation let's say you are at 24 to 26 P E on the index right is where you invest in value when you are not at the peak you are either at the moderate level or low.
I am saying anyway between 16 to 20 21 kind of P E is where you invest in growth right in simple terms lower the P E you will invest in growth strategies higher the market P E.
So lower the market P E this is for me I am talking about lower the market P E you will invest in growth strategies higher the market P E you will invest in value strategies what do I mean.
So let's say for example today if I want to invest in let's say growth strategies what do I do.
So you look at the portfolio P E and portfolio P B and whichever has a higher P E P E is the growth fund that you invest in let's try our hands out.
So let's say I go to the internet I search for let's say let's continue with the same example access view chip now I'm saying access view chip has what P E P B let me write it down.
access view chip access view chip what's the P E and what's the P B let me write it down.
So I go to value research I search for access view chip I go down I go down okay here is where I get it portfolio P B 4.46 4.64 and portfolio P E 30.84.
Right now I go to Nepal Nepal India large cap now if I go down what is the portfolio P B 1.50 portfolio P B is 1.50.
So we are saying there is one fund which has P E and P B of so Nepal has a P B of 1.5 and a P E of 15.09 this is the Nepal fund that you and I are talking about.
And the access fund access fund as a P E of P E of 30.84 30.84 and a P B of 4.64 just your understanding which is growth which is value lower P E P B is value and a higher P E P B is growth in our context of discussion.
Right the lower the P E is people will start finding value in it the higher the P E is the people people will say this is momentum or this is growth investing.
In today's time when the markets are 30% lower or where you are and if at all you want to do growth investing you should be choosing this access fund over the Nepal fund that we spoke of.
But if you are at 2500 and you are you think this is 2526 P E at the market level and there is not a lot of upside to the markets and you still want to invest you will do value strategy and then you had this been the situation you should have opted for the Nepal fund.
The point that I am trying to make to sum up this entire discussion that we had let me see this is working first you look at funds from the past data perspective so you look at their three years rolling on the 10 year data then you look at the sodium or ratio then you look at alpha then you look at the up capture and the down capture.
Right once you looked at this and you understood what what amongst two three funds that you had turned out to be good so amongst the 10 funds that you had depending on this data on the past data you select three.
Out of the three funds that you selected the first thing you look at they are sector allocation you should be convinced that the sectors in which they have invested money are the sectors which are going to perform and once you are okay with that you will have to look at the funds P E and P E to understand whether it is growth or value please understand higher P E is growth investing lower P E is value.
When do you do growth investing you do growth investing when the markets are lower so lower to rising market you do growth and if you think you are at the peak of the valuation you do value investing I hope this will help you select the right fund we've done enough data crunching enough understanding around how to pick the right fund.
And I just hope that you will be able to do a much better job then what y'all were currently doing and the way you were currently picking funds please remember the first thing you do is asset allocation design it for the client the second you do is link the investment to the goal.
Third thing look at the macros whether you think markets are supposed to go up or down looking at inflation and interest rates as number.
Fourth look at the past data and past history of the funds is where you will understand which fund has been consistently performing and out of the past performing good funds if you want to see how probably their position for the future look at their sector look at P B P E understand growth and value and select the right fund for the client I hope I have been able to add value to you in terms of selecting the right fund and you there is at least one new thing that you've learned through the entire series of videos.
Thank you so much for participating if you've not actually gone through a similar video series on debt please do do that we've put in a lot of effort to design how to select the right debt fund also and I hope by viewing both of these you will be able to add a lot of value to your clientile in selecting the right fund.
Thank you so much for opting to learn with us take care.
